Hi, this is Laura Turner and today we're going
to talk about how to make a story plot. A
plot is, as Aristotle says, the arrangement
of the incidents in the story or a play. So
think about your plot as being separate from
the story that you're telling. Your plot is
going to create your ultimate story. A tip
for writing a plot is to start from the end
and work your way back to the beginning because
if you know where your going, you know how
you have to get there. You maybe, you may
find this easy, you may find this really hampering
and strange to do, so, try it, try it from
the front, down and then from the back, up
and see which works better for you. But, to
write a good plot, you have to make sure everything
falls from each other. So you have to make
sure that you can actually start at one place
and end up where you want to be. Make an outline
of your plot with a list of things that have
to happen only. Don't hamper yourself with
your plot when you're trying to write your
story, but make sure that you are working
toward that end. So try to accomplish in your
chapter or your scene or your act, the things
that need to happen in order to move the story
forward and then fill in thing as you feel
fit. Use characters who will get the plot
moving. Characters who are dynamic and take
action and characters who make things happen
when they come into the plot. If your plot
is not moving, like you feel it should be,
it could be because your characters are not
helping you with the action of it. And then
finally, make sure all actions have a reaction
or payoff, even if, the first sentence says
in payoff until the last sentence of the story.
If you'd learn something in the very first
chapter of your story or the very first page
of your story, if it's a short story; if it
doesn't payoff until the very end, make sure
that it at least pays off in some way that
you have a end to your action; that something
starts it and something ends it. And hopefully
that'll help you get started with your story's
plot.